## Deployment
This project is deployed at https://facerlock.herokuapp.com.
## Credit
### Zoho
The newsletter sign-up form uses the form creation function in Zoho Campaigns. The autogenerated iframe codes from Zoho was used and put into the website.

### Bootstrap
We used the Bootswatch theme "Lux" as a Bootstrap CSS theme.
Tutorial for timeline component: [https://veysiyildiz.github.io/vertical-timeline-component-for-react/#/demo](https://veysiyildiz.github.io/vertical-timeline-component-for-react/#/demo "https://veysiyildiz.github.io/vertical-timeline-component-for-react/#/demo")
Component stylization: Bootstrap-react API and react strap

## Features Implemented
### Components
* About Product
	* 
* Cart
	* Displays the items when corresponding "Add to Cart" button is clicked on Buy page. Retrieves lock information from database and checks whether incart field of json is true or false.
* Complete Timeline
	* Combine the backend data to the front end component of the timeline. Each entry into the timeline database represents a timeline item.
* Contact
	* 
* Contact Form
	* 
* Features
	* 
* Footer
	* 
* Future Locks
	* 
* Header
	* 
* Learn More
	* Contains the Zoho newsletter/mailing list sign-up form, as well as a link to a Kickstarter page.
* Pay Entry
	* Contains lock information that is displayed on Buy page. Information about the locks is retrieved from the database.
* Testimonial Modal
	* Modal that appears when secret button below *Testimonials Carousel* is clicked. Allows the user to add/update/delete testimonials in the database through the frontend. Communicates to the backend and makes these changes to the database.
* Testimonial Carousel
	* Grabs testimonials data from the backend and presents it as a carousel component.
* Timeline
	* Contains the information that builds the timeline and unites its children (TimelineItem) into one timeline.
* Timeline Item
	* Incorporates TimelineItem.css to create a timeline item that holds a title, subtitle, date, and body.
* User Info
	* Contains a form where user is allowed to input their name/address/email/gender and the locks they intend to buy as a pre-order. Information input here is used to create a schema and stored in a database in the ConfirmPayment.js.

Five main pages were created: home, features, about, buy, and confirm payment. The confirm payment page is available when checking out the items in your cart, not in the header.

### Home Page 
This is the landing page that a user will find when navigating to the website.

Always at the top of the page is the *header* component, which becomes transparent at the top, and opaque as you move down. At the top is iframe code that displays the August Smart Lock Youtube video. Below this is code that gives a brief description of the product, and a "Learn More" button that leads to the August Smart Lock website. At the bottom of the page is the *contact* component.

### Features Page
This page will provide information about the features of the product nd allows user to sign up for the company newsletter and check out the company's Kickstarter.

Always at the top of the page is the *header* component. Then the *features* component is included. At the bottom of the page is the *contact* component.

### About Page
This page contains information about the history of locks, what the future of locks looks like, customer testimonials, and allows user to sign up for the company newsletter and check out the company's Kickstarter.

Always at the top of the page is the *header* component. Then the timeline component is included. Below that is the *future locks* component, then the *testimonial carousel* component, and a hidden *testimonial modal* button below the *testimonial carousel*. Below that is the *learn more* component. At the bottom of the page is the *contact* component.

### Buy Page
This page contains information about the type of locks you can buy, and allows you to add them to the cart to check out.

Always at the top of the page is the *header* component. The *pay entry* component makes up the most of this page. At the bottom of the page is the *contact* component.

### Confirm Payment Page
This page allows the user to enter payment information and finalize their purchase of locks. **NOTE:** Payment functionality has not been implemented as the client does not currently have products, instead, a 'pre-order' option was deemed most appropriate.

Always at the top of the page is the *header* component.  The *user info* component makes up the most of this page. At the bottom of the page is the *contact* component, but with the contact us form stripped out.

## How to Run the Project

In the project directory, you can run:
  
### `npm run-script dev`

Runs both the client app and the server app in development mode.<br>

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the client in the browser.

### `npm run-script client`

Runs just the client app in development mode.<br>

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the client in the browser.

### `npm run-script server`

Runs just the server in development mode.<br>  

### `npm run build`  

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>

It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

If deploying to heroku this does not need to be run since it is handled by the heroku-postbuild script<br>

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

## Updating Database
### MongoDB
MongoDB Atlas was used to host our database (sign-in found here: https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

The MongoDB Atlas database (named 'FaceR') holds the following collections:
* timelines: date, title, subtitle, and description
* testimonials: name, testimonial
* locks: description, image (path), name, price, incart (boolean), bought (boolean)
* userpaymentinfos: name, address, email, total (price), lockid

Data for the timelines, locks, and userpaymentinfos collections must be updated within MongoDB to add, delete, or adjust any information.

Data for the userpaymentinfos collection will be automatically added when a user confirms their purchase of locks.

Data for the testimonials collection can be updated within browser, by clicking a hidden transparent button in the center of the page directly below the testimonials carousel. The option to add/update/delete information will only become available when the correct fields are entered in. A password is needed to make any of these changes, and the testimonial id (found in the MongoDB collection) is needed to update or delete a testimonial.

### Heroku Server
When referencing any config variables that are on Heroku, use process.env.NAME_OF_CONFIG_VARIABLE in code. 

Any config variables used for local development are stored in server/config/config.js. In code, access these variables using relative pathing. 

**NOTE:** Make sure when accessing config variables try and access the Heroku variable first, then have an OR operand that will access config.js. If you try and access config.js first, the Heroku app will crash (since it does not have that file).

## Commit Messages

In general, commit messages should adhere to the following format:

  

(“Page: <Components/Features> : <change  type(s):  “styling”,  “functionality”,  “addition”,  “deletion”>:your general description of commit“)

  

E.g.

About Page: Testimonial Carousel: Styling: Slimmed down background image of each carousel item

INITIAL README PROVIDED BY TA'S
---
This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

This project contains an example project board meant to showcase how one can be used. The issues posted to it are not real issues.

  

#### _**IMPORTANT NOTE**_ -

This project does not have a mongoDB connection setup. For:

- local development: create a config file (make sure to name it config.js) in the config folder, which exports your db.uri connection. An example is provided, config/config.example.js. This file will be ignored by git so your db credentials will be kept safe when the app is deployed.

- production: Since the config file is not pushed when you deploy your app, you must specifiy your db uri in heorku. Set the uri in heroku as specified in [this](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/config-vars) resource. Make sure you name the environement variable "DB_URI".

  

## Getting Started

This repository aims to assist you in beginning work on a MERN stack application with a solid file structure as a foundation. To get started make a copy of this template repo for your project teams.

  

Since this project will hold both the client application and the server application there will be node modules in two different places. First run `npm install` from the root. After this you will run `npm run-script install-all` from the root. From now on run this command anytime you want to install all modules again. This is a script we have defined in package.json .

  

This app can be deployed directly to heroku since there is a script defined in package.json which will automatically handle building and deploying the app. For more information on deploying to heroku reference the extra resources at the bottom of this file.

  

## File structure

#### `client` - Holds the client application

-  #### `public` - This holds all of our static files

-  #### `src`

-  #### `assets` - This folder holds assets such as images, docs, and fonts

-  #### `components` - This folder holds all of the different components that will make up our views

-  #### `views` - These represent a unique page on the website i.e. Home or About. These are still normal react components.

-  #### `App.js` - This is what renders all of our browser routes and different views

-  #### `index.js` - This is what renders the react app by rendering App.js, should not change

-  #### `package.json` - Defines npm behaviors and packages for the client

#### `server` - Holds the server application

-  #### `config` - This holds our configuration files, like mongoDB uri

-  #### `controllers` - These hold all of the callback functions that each route will call

-  #### `models` - This holds all of our data models

-  #### `routes` - This holds all of our HTTP to URL path associations for each unique url

-  #### `tests` - This holds all of our server tests that we have defined

-  #### `server.js` - Defines npm behaviors and packages for the client

#### `package.json` - Defines npm behaviors like the scripts defined in the next section of the README

#### `.gitignore` - Tells git which files to ignore

#### `README` - This file!
  

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm run-script dev`

Runs both the client app and the server app in development mode.<br>

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the client in the browser.

### `npm run-script client`

Runs just the client app in development mode.<br>

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the client in the browser.

### `npm run-script server`

Runs just the server in development mode.<br>

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>

It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

If deploying to heroku this does not need to be run since it is handled by the heroku-postbuild script<br>

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).  

To learn how to setup a local MongoDB instance for testing, check out how to [Connect to MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/guides/server/drivers/).

To learn how to deploy a full-stack web app to heroku, check out [this great guide](https://daveceddia.com/deploy-react-express-app-heroku/).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify
